h4. Introduction

This funnel plot plugin extends the highcharts plotting / graphing library. Check the examples folder for specific examples on how to use this plot.

Steps for generating a Funnel Plot are
  1. Compute the mean of each category.
  2. Compute the overall mean, y and standard deviation, s.
  3. Compute control limits y ± zα * s / sqrt(n) where zα is the α quantile of the normal distribution and n varies between the number of observations in the smallest group and the number in the largest group.
  4. Plot the mean of each category against the sample size and overlay the control limits.

h4. Options

Observation Average Value (optional) : Number - If this value is not included the observation average will be computed using the data provided.

h4. Data Format

The only required attribute for the data series is the "label" and at least two other attributes to map. Here is an example:

<pre><code>
  series: [{
    name: 'Female',
    color: 'rgba(223, 83, 83, .5)',
    data: [[161.2, 51.6], [167.5, 59.0], [159.5, 49.2], [157.0, 63.0], [155.8, 53.6]
  }]
</code></pre>

h4. When To Use A Funnel Plot

Funnel plots were first used in educational research and psychology, to determine publication bias. A funnel plot is best used when the goal of the visualization is to detect bias or intervention of a particular result. Typically this is done by using the study's size or precision by plotting it against related data that measure the same event. Funnel plots are best used as a tool of meta-analysis to compare the results of smaller dataset to the larger datasets to find intervention effect.

h4. About Funnel Plots

bq. "Funnel plots are a visual tool for investigating publication and other bias in meta-analysis. They are simple scatterplots of the treatment effects estimated from individual studies (horizontal axis) against a measure of study size (vertical axis). The name “funnel plot” is based on the precision in the estima- tion of the underlying treatment effect increasing as the sample size of component studies increases. Therefore, in the absence of bias, results from small studies will scatter widely at the bottom of the graph, with the spread narrowing among larger studies. Publication bias (the association of publication probability with the statistical significance of study results) may lead to asymmetrical funnel plots. It is, however, important to realize that publication bias is only one of a number of possible causes of funnel-plot asymmetry—funnel plots should be seen as a generic means of examining small study effects (the tendency for the smaller studies in a meta-analysis to show larger treatment effects) rather than a tool to diagnose specific types of bias. This article introduces the metafunnel command, which produces funnel plots in Stata. In accordance with published recommendations, standard error is used as the measure of study size. Treatment effects expressed as ratio measures (for example risk ratios or odds ratios) may be plotted on a log scale."

??Sterne, Jonathan A. C. and R. M. Harbord, Funnel plots in meta-analysis, The Stata Journal 4:, Number 2, 127–141??

h4. Problems with Funnel Plots

"Some authors have argued that visual interpretation of funnel plots is too subjective to be useful. In particular, Terrin et al. found that researchers had only a limited ability to correctly identify funnel plots from meta-analyses subject to publication bias (Terrin 2005)."

"A further, important, problem with funnel plots is that some effect estimates (e.g. odds ratios and standardized mean differences) are naturally correlated with their standard errors, and can produce spurious asymmetry in a funnel plot. We discuss this problem in more detail in Section 10.4.3."

??http://www.mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk/cochrane/handbook/chapter_10/10_4_1_funnel_plots.htm??

h4. Keywords

"bias", "control charts", "institutional profiling", "outliers", "over-dispersion", "ranking" 

h4. Additional References to Funnel Plots

"http://www.mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk/cochrane/handbook/chapter_10/figure_10_4_a_hypothetical_funnel_plots.htm":http://www.mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk/cochrane/handbook/chapter_10/figure_10_4_a_hypothetical_funnel_plots.htm
"http://tools.erpho.org.uk/poisson.aspx":http://tools.erpho.org.uk/poisson.aspx
"http://medicine.cf.ac.uk/media/filer_public/2010/09/24/spiegelhalter_stats_in_med_funnel_plots.pdf":http://medicine.cf.ac.uk/media/filer_public/2010/09/24/spiegelhalter_stats_in_med_funnel_plots.pdf